No abuse of process in acquiring entities already protected under another investment treaty   In addition to its jurisdictional objections, Ukraine presented three objections to Tatneft’s claims’ admissibility.  The first admissibility objection concerned Tatneft’s indirect stake in Ukrtatnafta. Tatneft had taken control of Seagroup and AmRuz (two minority shareholders) in December 2007, thereby acquiring an additional 18% stake in Ukrtatnafta.  Ukraine challenged the timing of these acquisitions, to the extent that the measures Tatneft complained of had already happened: in May 2007, a Ukrainian court ordered AmRuz and Seagroup to hand over their shares to Ukrtatnafta as a provisional measure in one set of proceedings. In the second half of 2007, a second set of proceedings saw the Kiev courts – at first instance and appeal – rule on the invalidity of Seagroup’s and AmRuz’s share purchase agreements.  Ukraine then contended that Tatneft’s acquisition of these interests, arising after the dispute, was performed for forum-shopping purposes. (Reader will recall that corporate restructuring can derail a claim if deemed abusive – see, e.g., the award in Philip Morris v Australia .)  This objection failed on two accounts. First, the tribunal noted that “at least some of the alleged harm” to Tatneft’s indirect investment occurred after its acquisition. While taking due note of the two sets of proceedings identified by Ukraine, the tribunal found that it was a third set of proceedings, initiated in February 2008, that definitively invalidated the share purchase agreements. By contrast, the first two sets of proceedings were temporary in nature, and susceptible of being overturned at the time of the acquisition.  Second, and in any case, the tribunal was unpersuaded that the claimant’s actions were abusive. AmRuz and Seagroup sent their own notice of dispute in June 2008, under the Ukraine-US BIT and the Energy Charter Treaty respectively. At the direction of Tatneft, these disputes were eventually discontinued to bring all claims under the Russia-Ukraine BIT.  In the tribunal’s view, this was not an abuse, as there is no indication that the standards of protection under these treaties were inferior to those under the Russia-Ukraine BIT. Compared to precedents where abuse barred admissibility, Tatneft was “not substituting a status of protected investor for that of an investor which otherwise is not entitled to protection, which is the essence of forum shopping.” (We’ve written recently about a case where Mr Orrego Vicuna also sits and where an abuse did arise – but where arbitrators gave the claimants the opportunity to cure this abuse.)