Tatneft is not “controlled” by the Republic of Tatarstan   Ukraine next objected that Tatneft was controlled by the Republic of Tatarstan, and therefore not an investor under the BIT.  The state proposed two tests supporting this conclusion: under a “structural test”, Ukraine stressed that the Republic owns a “golden share” in Tatneft with special privileges, while its Prime Minister chairs the Board of Directors. Under a “functional test,” Tatneft was used by the Republic to pursue some public policies and social undertakings, and had contributed to the Republic’s budget. According to Ukraine, this was notably revealed by Tatneft itself in filings with the United States SEC: “the Tatarstan government is able to exercise considerable influence over us.”  In Ukraine’s view, Tatneft was thus a governmental entity, and the definition of “investor” in the Russia-Ukraine BIT does not encompass such entities.  Yet the tribunal did not deem it necessary to decide this last point, instead accepting the claimant’s insistence that it was not, in fact, controlled by the Republic of Tatarstan.  Looking at the structural test, the tribunal noted that the “aspects of government presence” identified by Ukraine could not detract from the fact that the Republic only owned 36% of Tatneft’s shares (additional allegations that further stakes were owned indirectly, or by individuals close to the Tatarstan government, were deemed unsubstantiated).  Ukraine was not more successful with respect to the functional test; the elements identified by Ukraine were deemed “marginal,” while Tatneft’s core activities were commercial in nature.  In the tribunal’s view, Tatneft’s situation was typical of the “transition” of erstwhile state-owned companies in the context of the former Soviet Republics’ conversion to market economies. “Because of its past close connection with the Tatar Government, it is perhaps inevitable that some of these policy elements might have survived in Tatneft, but again that does not mean that the company loses its essential commercial aims.” The filings with the SEC were held to refer only to past events, and for the tribunal it is in the nature of such filings to disclose investment risks, including the risk of undue influence by the government.*  Since Tatneft was not controlled by the government, there was no need to decide or prejudge whether “public entities” are allowed to claim under the Russia-Ukraine BIT.  (This is however a question likely to surface in the context of a more recently-filed arbitration between Ukraine and the Republic of Tatarstan, relating to the latter’s own separate shareholding interest in Ukrtatnafta.**)