Looking Back: in first award involving the US under NAFTA Chapter 11, tribunal found no denial of justice against Canadian investor Mondev     (Editor’s Note: This is a report in our new series examining investment treaty awards that were rendered prior to the launch of IAReporter in 2008. Other articles in this series can be found here .)   The Mondev International Ltd. v. USA case was the first investor-state dispute against the United States to reach a final award under the North American Free Trade Agreement.  The case arose out of a failed development project in Boston, where Canada-based Mondev, through its American subsidiary LPA, entered into a 1978 tripartite agreement with the city and its development arm (BRA). LPA was granted an option to purchase a certain parcel of land (and the air rights to build upon it), according to a price formula set in the agreement.  Various issues prevented the investor from exercising this option before it lapsed, in 1989. In Mondev’s narrative, the city frustrated this exercise purposefully, as the price pursuant to the 1978 formulae was much lower than the 1989 market price.  A case was soon filed by LPA in US courts, and resulted in a jury finding against the city and BRA. No verdict was entered against BRA, however, due to its immunity for intentional torts, and the city subsequently won on appeal. Mondev’s appeals to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court (SJC), finally decided in 1998, proved fruitless; the US Supreme Court later denied it certiorari .  In 1999, the investor put the United States on notice of a NAFTA Arbitration, and subsequently filed a claim with ICSID under its Additional Facility Rules. A tribunal composed of Sir Ninian Stephen (chair agreed by the parties), professor Arbitrator 
   (claimant’s appointee) and Arbitrator 
   (respondent’s appointee) was constituted and later rendered its award on October 11, 2002 [ click to download ].  Mondev was represented by White &amp; Case LLP and Hale and Dorr LLP, and Sir Arthur Watts of 20 Essex Street. Until December of 2000, Charles N. Brower, who would later become one of the most commonly-appointed investment treaty arbitrators, was also a member of the White &amp; Case team. The United States was represented by in-house counsel.