Ecuador’s proposed set-off is dismissed as heads of damages are “separate and distinct”   The heart of the tribunal’s analysis was that Murphy Ecuador was entitled to the difference between the adjusted fair market value and the price paid by Repsol for the 20% stake in Block 16.  Yet, in Ecuador’s view, this amount should be a negative one, because the adjusted fair market value is below what Repsol actually paid for Murphy’s interest in the block. The respondent pointed to Murphy’s acknowledgment that this fair market value was lower in the scenario where the tribunal refuses to consider the Extension Contract and the non-FET claims (as eventually happened).  For Ecuador, the claimant has then acknowledged that the sale to Repsol had fully mitigated its losses. As a result, Murphy’s overall compensation (including the amounts accounting for the excess payments under the 99% levy) should be reduced to nil thanks to a set-off.  The respondent argued that the tribunal had the power and the duty to order such a set-off, and moreover argued that the offset was so significant that it should also tip the ultimate decision on costs towards Ecuador’s favour.  In response, Murphy objected to what it deemed an “eleventh-hour attempt to convert the [E]ntitlement into a credit”, and asked the tribunal to deem this argument to be untimely. The investor also stressed that a set-off was not warranted between two different and unrelated heads of damages. Murphy argued that the sale to Repsol only mitigated the “post-sale forward-looking damages”, and not the other losses incurred by Murphy under the 99% levy. Lastly, the claimant sought to rely on the partial award’s language which, in its view, did not envisage the possibility of calculating a negative sum in this context.  Murphy’s reasoning was ultimately followed by the tribunal: the two categories of damages were indeed “separate and distinct”. Although Repsol did pay more than the claimant’s idea of the fair market value as at 2009 (to the effect that the Entitlement was actually zero), this did not “mitigate” the “historical” losses incurred under the 99% levy, but only future damages. (The tribunal seemed however less convinced that Ecuador’s argument was untimely).  As a result, the tribunal rejected Ecuador’s claim for a set-off and for costs in its favour and found that Murphy was not entitled to anything under this head of damages. Ecuador was then only liable for the damages already found in the partial award, and the pre-award interest applicable to that sum.  Since the tribunal saw no clearly succeeding party in this last phase, it ordered the parties to bear their own costs.  The law firms King &amp; Spalding and Perez Bustamante represented Murphy. The respondent was represented by Foley Hoag.