Court ultimately takes different view of key evidence and finds the money laundering accusations were sufficiently supported to justify set-aside   The Kyrgyz Republic’s case was based on the links between Manas Bank and the Baltic International Bank, both owned by Mr Belokon. The Court noted that the latter has recently been fined by the Latvian financial regulator as it failed to observe its anti-money laundering obligations.  On this basis, the Kyrgyz Republic alleged that the investment in Manas Bank was a way for Mr Belokon and the BIB to take advantage of the Republic’s weaker institutions to pursue their unlawful activities. In the Court’s view, these allegations “appeared” to be true. It found confirmation for the Kyrgyz Republic’s opinion on the basis of “serious, precise and corroborative” evidence (the French legal standard for these allegations in such proceedings).  Notably, the Court relied on two reports by East Star Capital that had been criticized on various grounds by the BIT tribunal. Notwithstanding these criticisms, the Paris judges stressed that the volume of transactions in nearly three years at Manas Bank, an entity close to bankruptcy before its acquisition by Mr Belokon, was greater than the Kyrgyz Republic’s GDP in 2008, and that most of these transactions involved offshore counterparts.  On the Court’s view, this “lightning success within such a short time, in such a poor country, cannot be explained by usual banking practices”. Rather, and for the purpose of setting aside the award, the Court found sufficient evidence that Mr Belokon acquired Manas Bank on the basis of his links with the Kyrgyz authorities of the time, to develop “money laundering operations that could not have flourished in the less favourable Latvian environment”. In such circumstances, declining to set aside the award would mean that Mr Belokon would receive the proceeds of potentially unlawful operations – a result prohibited by French international public policy.  As a result, the award was set aside, Mr Belokon’s counterclaim for vexing proceedings denied, and €300,000 in costs awarded to the Kyrgyz Republic.