On the merits, tribunal stresses central character of the contractual claims   Having established its jurisdiction over Argentina for its own actions or for actions from the Tucumán authorities that were attributable to it, the tribunal proceeded to examine the claimants’ case with respect to the latter.  The claimants cited four categories of actions that had allegedly breached the BIT. The first category grouped actions that reduced the recovery rate (i.e., the number of customers actually paying for the service) under the Concession Agreement. The claimants cited, inter alia , statements by Tucumán authorities encouraging citizens not to pay their bills. The second category included acts that unilaterally reduced the tariff rate. The third referred to abuses of regulatory authority, and the fourth to bad faith dealings, allegedly committed by Tucumán’s public authorities. (All this factual background would be assessed much more carefully in the second award on the merits, reviewed here ).  Analysing the facts, the tribunal came to the conclusion that most of the measures at issue were “closely linked to the performance or non-performance of the parties under the Concession Contract.”  In this respect, article 16(4) of the contract – the forum selection clause – came to prominence, as the tribunal held that it could not rule on Argentina’s alleged treaty breaches until the claimants asserted their rights in accordance with the contract, and “have been denied their rights, either procedurally or substantively.”  In the tribunal’s view, this conclusion was compounded by the fact that it could not distinguish Tucumán’s actions in exercise of its sovereign authority from actions taken as a commercial party without an interpretation of the Concession Agreement – a task reserved to the Tucumán administrative courts under article 16(4).  While the claimants had argued that submitting the dispute to the local courts would preclude any further international arbitration under the BIT’s fork-in-the-road clause, the tribunal answered that the clause would apply only to treaty claims, and would not operate if the claimants merely brought contract claims in Argentina.