The principle of sincere cooperation, and the risk of conflicting decisions, support a stay of enforcement   However, the judgment granted Romania and the Commission’s alternative request for a stay of the enforcement. Mr Justice Blair acknowledged that the duty of sincere cooperation invoked by Romania and the Commission was applicable, and agreed that enforcement of the award would put Romania in breach of the Final Decision.  Besides, enforcing the award would entail a risk of conflicting decisions with the GCEU’s final determination. For this reasons, as well, a stay was warranted.  The investors raised several arguments to oppose this result. First, they denied that enforcement would put Romania in breach: they argued that any enforcement would not be imputable to Romania, as it would merely be compelled to honour the award.  Second, and in any case, Romania’s obligations under the Final Decision were considered to have been trumped by other considerations. One of these was the award’s res judicata effect, which is recognized under EU law. As the award was res judicata from the date it was issued (in 2013), a later decision from EU authorities could not undermine its authority.  The investors also contended that the Final Decision was trumped by article 351 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which provides that the European Treaties shall not affect member states’ obligations under agreements predating their accession.*** In this context, they stressed that the ICSID Convention had been signed and ratified by both the UK prior its entry into the EU.  Romania and the Commission contested the relevance of “imputability” in these proceedings: any payment by Romania would put it in breach of the Final Decision. They also denied that the award became res judicata in 2013, holding instead that it occurred only with the decision on annulment in 2016 (about which, see our in-depth analysis ). Alternatively, they argued that neither the principle of res judicata nor article 351 were applicable, as they should not allow the High Court to circumvent the Commission’s Final Decision.  In answer, the High Court agreed with the claimants in holding that the award was res judicata from the date it was issued, at least as a matter of English law (noting that it might be different for ICSID purposes).  Yet, Mr Justice Blair reasoned that all these issues (the imputability of Romania’s payment, the award’s res judicata effects, and article 351) were, in one way or another, already in dispute before the GCEU. This finding strengthened his view that enforcing the award entailed a risk of inconsistent decisions, and, thus, that a stay of the enforcement was warranted pending the outcome of the GCEU proceedings.