English court will hold trial to assess whether alleged fraud was perpetrated on Kazakhstan in relation to $500 million Energy Charter Treaty award    In a judgment handed down on June 6, 2017, Mr Justice Knowles of the Commercial Court in the Queen’s Bench Division of the High Court of Justice has acceded to Kazakhstan’s requests and opened the way for a later trial regarding allegations of fraud by Moldovan investor Anatolie Stati in obtaining an SCC arbitral award in his favour.*  Readers will recall that, following a business and political row between one of Moldova’s wealthiest man, Mr Stati, and the Moldavian and Kazakh authorities, the claimant initiated an arbitration against Kazakhstan under the Energy Charter Treaty, alleging that Kazakh authorities mistreated his investment at the urging of Moldova.  In 2013 a tribunal of Arbitrator 
   , Arbitrator 
   , and Arbitrator 
   (Chair), rendered a $500 million award in favour of Mr. Stati. (Our four-part report of the 400+ page award is available here , here , here and here .)  The arbitration was seated in Sweden, and Kazakhstan recently suffered a setback in its efforts to set aside the award before the Svea Court of Appeal . The claimants have meanwhile sought to recognise and enforce the award in the UK and the US, where both courts stayed proceedings pending the results of the set aside’s bid.  Given Kazakhstan’s failure to set aside the award before the Swedish courts, the state was precluded from arguing in the UK proceedings that a lack of a valid arbitration agreement, the invalid constitution of the tribunal, or alleged procedural deficiencies should bar recognition of the award in the UK. Rather, the state’s sole remaining argument was that the award would contravene public policy in that it had been obtained by alleged fraud on the claimants’ part.  As we report below, the Court, concerned by the public policy implications entailed in recognising the award “as a judgment of this Court,” preferred to get to the bottom of the fraud allegations and opened the way for a later trial on this question, notwithstanding Kazakhstan’s failure to set aside the award at the seat.  King &amp; Spalding represented the claimants before the High Court, while Herbert Smith Freehills instructed Ali Malek QC, Christopher Harris and Paul Choon Kiat Wee of 3 Verulam Buildings on behalf of Kazakhstan.