Looking Back: Tecmed v. Mexico breaks ground in adopting expansive reading of the Fair and Equitable Treatment and upholding protection of investors’ “legitimate expectations”     (Editor’s Note: On January 10, 2018 we updated this report to add further discussion of the tribunal’s damages analysis, including discussion of an issue that came to our attention only after we published another report in our Looking Back series: the willingness of tribunals to consider social/community pressure on an investor as a negative factor in the valuation of damages.)   The May 2003 award in Técnicas Medioambientales Tecmed, S.A. v. Mexico [ click to download ] has often been characterized as being on the far end of the spectrum of possible interpretations of the ‘fair and equitable treatment’ obligation, embodying a standard highly demanding of states. As we discuss below, this case also proved seminal – and no less controversial – in several other respects, making it a cornerstone of modern investment jurisprudence.  In 1996, following a public tender, a subsidiary of the Spanish-registered claimant purchased Cytrar, a hazardous waste landfill located near Hermosillo, the capital of the Mexican state of Sonora. Problems soon arose between the local population and Tecmed regarding the proximity of the landfill to the city. While the investor was negotiating a relocation of the landfill, the National Ecology Institute (INE), a Mexican federal agency, refused to renew its operating permit, in effect closing it down. In 2000, the investor brought a claim before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) under the 1995 Spain-Mexico bilateral investment treaty (BIT).  The tribunal in the Tecmed arbitration was composed of Arbitrator 
   (claimant’s appointee), Carlos Bernal Verea (respondent’s appointee),* and Arbitrator 
   presiding. (This was Mr. Grigera’s first known appointment in an investment treaty case, but he would be appointed often in the ensuing years, typically by claimants.)  The investor was represented by Jones Day, while Mexico’s in-house legal team were assisted by the law firm Shaw Pittman and Arbitrator 
   (then) of Thomas &amp; Partners.