In long-confidential Russia-Ukraine BIT award, tribunal reviews evidence of alleged “black raid” by oligarch, facilitated by Ukraine’s courts and Prosecutor     [Editor’s note: this is the first part in a pair of articles discussing the recently-unearthed award in Tatneft v Ukraine. The article below analyses the dense factual background and measures at issue in the case. In a second part we focus more on the tribunal’s interpretation and application of the BIT protections and the damages analysis.]   A petition to enforce an investment arbitration award in U.S. Federal Court has brought to light a long-confidential ruling obtained against Ukraine under the Russia-Ukraine Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) by Russian investor Tatneft.  Tatneft, one of the largest producers of crude oil in Russia, was awarded more than $112 million in damages from Ukraine following the loss of its 22.7% direct and indirect shareholding interest in Ukrtatnafta, a Ukrainian company owning an oil refinery in Kremenchuk.  As we chronicle below, the case was unusual in that the claimant contended that Ukraine was liable for actions and omissions which ultimately led third-parties (Privat Group interests) – not the respondent itself – to gain control over Ukrtatnafta.  We reported recently on this case when Ukraine failed to set aside the award before the Paris Court of appeal, in November 2016 (see our analysis here ). Ukraine’s arguments in the Paris proceedings mostly concerned a September 28, 2010 decision on jurisdiction, which has still not been released. Below, and in our companion report , we report on the tribunal’s July 29, 2014 award on merits and damages [ click to download ].  The claimant Tatneft is minority-owned by the Republic of Tatarstan, a sub-federal entity of the Russian Federation. ( We recently reported on a second BIT arbitration against Ukraine, this time brought by the Republic of Tatarstan, arising out of its own additional direct shareholding interests in the same Ukrainian company Ukrtatnafta. A tribunal was recently finalized in that new case.)  The Tatneft arbitration was filed in 2008, and handled by a tribunal composed of Arbitrator 
   (Tatneft’s appointee), Arbitrator 
   (Ukraine’s appointee), and Arbitrator 
   (chair by agreement of the co-arbitrators).  (The award reveals that Tatneft had first appointed Arbitrator 
   as arbitrator. Mr Dolzer’s appointment was successfully challenged by Ukraine before the Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration. The reasons for this challenge have not been disclosed.)  Cleary Gottlieb represented the claimant in the underlying arbitration (and now represents the Republic of Tatarstan in the new BIT claim). The law firm King &amp; Spalding represented Ukraine, along with Grischenko &amp; Partners as local counsel during the Tatneft arbitration, but has been replaced by Winston &amp; Strawn during the set aside proceedings.