Tribunal declined to follow a DCF analysis, and awarded market value of the investment   Finally, in determining quantum, Tecmed proposed that restitution was infeasible and that it should instead receive compensation of US$52 million, pursuant to a Discounted Cash-Flow (DCF) analysis. However, Mexico questioned reliance on a DCF analysis, pointing out that the landfill had only operated for two and a half years.  [UPDATE January 10, 2018: Below we have updated this report to provide additional details of the tribunal’s quantum analysis.]  The objection to a DCF valuation was accepted by the tribunal. Instead, it chose to focus on the expected value of the landfill in an “arm’s-length” transaction. The tribunal’s analysis started from the price that Tecmed originally paid for Cytrar during the public tender, and took into account the investments and increase in the investment’s value and goodwill due to Tecmed up to the date of expropriation, as well as lost profits for two years thereafter, to arrive at a sum of more than US$5.5 million.  In the course of its analysis, the tribunal professed to walk a fine line between taking into account the “community pressure” that would have continued to plague the operation of the landfill – and therefore its future profits in the eye of a potential acquirer – while not  taking into account the actions of the Mexican authorities, stemming from the same pressures, which eventually – and contrary to the BIT – led Tecmed’s investment into ruin.  ( Editor’s Note: the tribunal’s willingness to factor in such “community pressure” calls to mind the earlier reasoning of the tribunal in SD Myers v. Canada, which seemed to weigh the investor’s exposure to pressre from environmental NGOs in its overall assessment of that claimant’s business risks. More broadly, the willingness of tribunals to consider the negative financial effects of public/NGO pressure may offer another reason for investors to strive to obtain the so-called “social licence” that was discussed in the recent Bear Creek v. Peru award .)  For the tribunal, an informed buyer would have come to the conclusion that the landfill would necessarily be relocated, thus curtailing the expected profits from this landfill to two years only (being the estimated time required to achieve this relocation).  Compound interest at 6% per annum was added to this, but the claimant’s request for moral damages was rejected without particular discussion – although the tribunal saw no ground to attribute the “adverse press coverage” suffered by the claimants to Mexico or otherwise found the state liable for this.  Each party was left to bear its own costs.