Parties propose various valuation methods, but tribunal favours neither side   After its merits findings, the tribunal proceeded to assess the fair market value of Tatneft’s shares in Ukrtatnafta at the time the claimant lost them (in 2009 for the shares Tatneft owned through Seagroup and AmRuz; in 2010 for its direct investment). Estimates by the claimant and respondent’s experts ranged from $15 million to $358 million. The claimant had initially sought restitution of its shares as its primary relief, but by the end of the arbitration sought only compensation.  As noted by the tribunal, the discrepancy was a result of very different methodologies. Tatneft favoured identifying a valuation range on the basis of multiple valuation methods (including taking into account the price paid in 2009 by Korsan and the Privat Group of Mr Kolomoisky to acquire Ukrtatnafta’s shares, following the annulment of Seagroup and AmRuz’s share purchase agreements). None of those methods however took Ukrtatnafta’s financial statements into account, as Tatneft framed those statements as “unreliable.”  For its part, Ukraine preferred a DCF analysis – something of a reversal for a state, although not unprecedented – and argued that this analysis based on the aforementioned financial statements would result in a negative valuation. Given this negative result, Ukraine also proposed a method whereby a valuation range was found on the basis of the refinery’s net salvage value, and its value under a scenario where it is reconfigured to “improve profitability”.  The tribunal saw weakness in each of the parties’ respective proposals. The tribunal stressed the oddity of Tatneft relying on the share price paid by Korsan and Privat Group, the alleged “black raiders” who were at the source of its own woes. Above all, however, the tribunal took issue with the claimant’s desire not to take Ukrtatnafta’s financial statements into account. The tribunal stressed that Tatneft had been in charge of issuing these statements until 2007, and therefore their alleged unreliability “should not exculpate the Claimant from the more limited compensation the Tribunal shall award.”  As for the respondent’s DCF analysis, the tribunal deemed this to rely too extensively on these contested financial statements. Moreover, Ukraine’s estimated salvage value of the refinery was insufficiently reliable, as its own experts had not gained full access to the refinery.