Tribunal interprets the standard of review under article 1105   On the merits, Waste Management argued that Mexico breached NAFTA’s article 1105, as Acaverde was a victim of arbitrariness, lack of due process and denial of justice in its relations with the Mexican authorities.  Before addressing this claim, the tribunal chose to clarify the scope of NAFTA’s article 1105. Relying on previous NAFTA jurisprudence and on the Free Trade Commission’s interpretation of this article (as found in the FTC’s August 2001 Notes of interpretation ), the tribunal accepted that the FET standard was linked to the minimum standard of treatment under international law, and evolved along with it. More explicitly, the tribunal deemed that a breach of FET could be found only:  “if the [impugned] conduct is arbitrary, grossly unfair, unjust or idiosyncratic, is discriminatory […], or involves a lack of due process leading to an outcome which offends judicial propriety – as might be the case with […] a complete lack of transparency and candour […].” A breach “of representations made by the host State which were reasonably relied on by the claimant” is also relevant in this finding.  This interpretation has proved influential: not only in disputes under NAFTA or similarly-worded treaties ( see our analysis of RDC v. Guatemala***), but also in non-NAFTA disputes (e.g., MNSS v. Montenegro ). Notably, in Cargill v. Mexico this seemingly “deferential” FET standard was contrasted with the apparently more stringent one adopted by the award in Tecmed v. Mexico ( which we reviewed here ).  Yet, the tribunal’s analysis continued to be criticized by respondent-states for its failure to ground its interpretation on a proper analysis of state practice (see our analysis of Canada’s argument in Lone Pine ). The standard’s concern for the investor’s legitimate expectations is also an ongoing source of contention: as we reported , this was one of the major debates in Mesa v. Canada, and especially with respect to the Bilcon tribunal’s prior endorsement of this standard. (Nonetheless, the Mesa tribunal eventually unanimously endorsed this interpretation .)