Illegality objection fails to find traction   Ukraine’s final objection to jurisdiction focused on the alleged illegality of Tatneft’s investment in Ukrtatnafta. Ukraine cited Tatneft’s non-compliance with a thirty-day period in the 1995 Treaty for the respective “contributions” of the shareholders to be made. Ukraine also pointed to Ukrainian securities laws that mandate prompt payment for shares. On the facts, Ukraine noted that Tatneft had belatedly paid for its shares, and only after shareholders resolutions allowed Tatneft to alter the very nature of its contribution to the venture.  Even more potent in Ukraine’s view was the fact that Tatneft’s actions breached the “parity” requirement of the Ukrtatnafta Treaty. Tatneft allied at one point with two foreign, minority shareholders, AmRuz and Seagroup, in order to control 55% of the voting rights.  In reviewing the objection, the tribunal interpreted the “legality” requirement as applying only to the initiation of the investment, and seemed to agree with the tribunal in L.E.S.I v Algeria that it concerned only fundamental principles of the host State’s legislation.  On this basis, the tribunal was unconvinced that Tatneft’s acquisition of shares was tainted by illegality. At no point was this alleged illegality raised earlier in the context of Ukrtatnafta’s management, and the shareholders all agreed to the modification of Tatneft’s contribution. The remedy contemplated under Ukrainian securities laws was a fine, and the right of the company to dispose of the unpaid shares – something Ukrtatnafta never did. Lastly, the tribunal found that illegality claims under Ukrainian law were time-barred by a Ukrainian three-year statute of limitations. (The tribunal did not elaborate on the interplay between this domestic law statute of limitations and the BIT’s legality requirements.)  As to the “parity” requirement, the tribunal interpreted the Treaty as mandating equal ownership of the company, by the Ukrainian and Tatarstan sides, only at the outset of its incorporation.