“Consent” in article 72 means perfected – not unilateral – consent   Readers will recall that under article 71 and 72 of the ICSID Convention, the Convention remains in force for six months following denunciation, and that a denunciation notice “shall not affect the rights or obligations under this Convention of that State […] arising out of consent to the jurisdiction of the Centre given […] before such notice was received by the depositary.”  The challenge in this case was to determine whether there was consent prior to the denunciation becoming effective in July of 2012.  The tribunal interpreted Articles 71 and 72 as referring only to “consent to the jurisdiction of the Centre” already perfected at the time of the denunciation in January of 2012, a category that did not include the unilateral consent to ICSID arbitration found in the underlying BIT. As such, that unilateral consent in the BIT was not available to be accepted by the claimants following Venezuela’s January 2012 denunciation notice.  The claimants’ case can be distinguished, on the facts, from a pair of recently-decided cases, the Tenaris v. Venezuela and Valores de Mundiales v. Venezuela proceedings, in that the tribunals in these cases dated the investors’ consent to ICSID arbitration prior to Venezuela’s January 2012 notice of termination (e.g., by filing notices of dispute that made clear that the investors accepted the consent located in relevant BITs.)  However, arbitrators in the new Fabrica award also distinguished their holdings from those in a pair of cases – Venoklim v. Venezuela and Blue Bank v. Venezuela – where tribunals had accepted jurisdiction over disputes where the investors had not expressed their consent until after Venezuela issued its denunciation notice (but before the six month taking effect of that notice.) The tribunal in the Fabrica case observed that arbitrators in the Venoklim and Blue Bank cases appeared to have upheld jurisdiction without much discussion over whether “consent” in the Convention’s article 72 was to be interpreted as “unilateral” or “perfected.”