Tribunal disagrees with Supreme Court’s reasoning, holds the PPA valid   The tribunal addressed this judgment in its final, April 1, 2014 award [ click to download ]. Reiterating its “highest respect for the courts of Ghana”, the tribunal identified two questions to answer: whether the PPA was an “international business transaction” under article 181(5), and the effect of this determination on the PPA’s validity.  The first question had been answered in the affirmative by the Supreme Court. However, the tribunal noted that this determination had not “been free from doubt”, that it was “only one possible alternative”, and that the views of both parties had been “plausible”. The tribunal gave weight to the fact that Balkan Energy’s Ghanaian subsidiary signed the PPA, and that “this is not a case brought under a foreign investment treaty”.**** Besides, the conduct of the parties, even after the dispute arose, showed that this was not their understanding of the PPA.  This led the tribunal, despite professing “due deference and respect” for the court, to reject the Supreme Court’s analysis. Looking at the totality of the circumstances, the tribunal found that the PPA was not an international business transaction.  Turning to the second question, the tribunal acknowledged the high probability that the PPA would later be held void ab initio by Ghanaian courts, following the Supreme Court’s determination.*****  Yet, the tribunal ultimately accepted that the PPA was valid, and Ghana was estopped from benefitting from such determination. Two principles under international and Ghanaian law concurred to this finding. First, getting necessary approvals was Ghana’s sole responsibility under the PPA, and “it is a well recognized general principle of law that no party can take advantage of its own wrongdoing or omission to the detriment of the rights and interests of another party.”  Second, the tribunal deemed the aforementioned letter from Ghana’s Attorney General – that had affirmed that Article 181(5) did not apply to the contract – as well as Ghana’s subsequent conduct, to have created “legitimate rights and expectations” for Balkan Energy. The tribunal observed “that the principle that a reasonable and legitimate expectations of a party can give rise to a benefit that cannot be denied to that party is a well-acknowledged principle of the common law and is, as such, part of the laws of the Republic of Ghana.”  The conjunction of these two principles prevented the PPA from being held void ab initio . The PPA being valid, the tribunal proceeded to discuss the claims of both parties regarding performance.  (Readers will recall that other cases raise similar issues; most recently, we’ve written about a Belize dispute touching on such themes.)