CAFTA tribunal notifies parties of error in earlier jurisdictional award, as proceedings are slated to terminate; separate ruling on transparency is significant    A tribunal hearing a claim by several US investors against the Republic of Costa Rica has issued two letters to the parties, notifying them of an error in an earlier jurisdictional award, and interpreting a transparency requirement in the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), the treaty underpinning the case.  As we reported in October 2016 ( see here ), the tribunal largely rejected jurisdiction over the nine investors’ claims of expropriation of beachfront property, leaving only certain narrow claims remaining in the case. Following the jurisdictional award, most of the claimants (the ‘Spence’ claimants) terminated their proceedings, while three claimants – Brett Berkowitz and his sons Aaron and Trevor – pursued their case. At the same time, the Berkowitz claimants filed to set aside the jurisdictional award before US courts ( see here ), and unsuccessfully petitioned the tribunal to stay its proceedings until the set-aside had been decided ( see here ).  In a subsequent letter of March 20, 2017, the tribunal requested the parties to submit further information on the status of certain domestic proceedings regarding some of the land plots at stake in the arbitration. In separate communications shortly before and after this letter, however, both Costa Rica and the three remaining claimants requested the tribunal to terminate the proceedings. Apparently as a result of their view that the arbitration should be terminated, in a letter of April 3, the claimants declined to provide the information sought by the tribunal.  As discussed further below, however, Costa Rica submitted the information requested, prompting the tribunal to issue a letter to the parties on April 17 indicating that its earlier jurisdictional award had contained a factual error regarding the domestic proceedings’ status.  On the same date, the tribunal also issued a separate letter, responding to Costa Rica’s objection to the publication of certain communications between the parties and the tribunal. As we discuss below, this letter offers important clarifications on the duties of transparency in CAFTA and, potentially, equivalent duties in other international instruments.  Arbitrators in the case are Arbitrator 
   (chair), Arbitrator 
   (claimants’ appointee) and Arbitrator 
   (respondent’s appointee).  The remaining claimants are represented in the arbitration by GST LLP; the respondent by Sidley Austin LLP.