In final award in Murphy v Ecuador windfall levy case, tribunal finds no reason to add or subtract from previously-ordered compensation    Arbitrators have issued their final award in a long-running dispute under the US-Ecuador bilateral investment treaty, the Murphy v. Ecuador case.  The dispute, arbitrated by Arbitrator 
   (investor’s nominee), Arbitrator 
   (chair) and Arbitrator 
   (respondent’s nominee), centered on Murphy’s 20% interest in a consortium that had operated an oil block (Block 16) in Ecuador and which was subjected to a windfall levy (“Law 42”) on excess or extraordinary profits.*   As we’ve previously reported , a 2016 “partial final award” had held Ecuador liable for a breach of the BIT’s fair and equitable treatment standard, but only for Ecuador’s imposition of a 99% levy on excess profits. (When the levy was set, for a time, merely at the rate of 50%, arbitrators considered that this less aggressive rate did not breach the FET standard.)  At the time of the partial award, the tribunal held that Ecuador should pay $19.97 million US for the breach of the FET clause, as well as $7.1 million in pre-award interest. This compensation appears to have been equivalent to the amounts that had been remitted to Ecuador over the previous years in order to comply with the windfall levy.  However, the partial award left undecided some questions of compensation. In particular, the arbitrators were not then in a position to rule on a second claim centered upon compensation for the difference between cash flows that would have been obtained but-for the windfall measures, and what the company actually received in 2009 when it sold its stake in the project to the consortium-operator Repsol (at a time when the windfall measures were in effect).  The tribunal gave the parties time to try to settle on an adjustment of Murphy’s fair market value, and on the resulting sum Murphy was entitled to (the “Entitlement”). As the parties failed to reach such agreement, the case gave rise to further pleadings, with both parties seeking to modify the amount to be awarded. The final award, dated February 10, 2017, which puts an end to this dispute, can be downloaded here .