Simply because Impregilo had powers of attorney from other parties did not expand the tribunal’s jurisdiction   As a first jurisdictional, Pakistan denied that Impregilo had standing to sue on behalf of the joint venture (GBC). Pakistan stressed that GBC was a Swiss entity, but lacked “legal personality” under Swiss law (which had no specific legal regime for joint-ventures), and thus not a “juridical person” as required by Article 25 of the ICSID Convention.  In response, Impregilo pointed to its own contractual right to act on behalf of the joint-venture, and its status as the “Leader” of GBC. Moreover, the other participants in the joint-venture had conferred a specific Power of Attorney upon Impregilo for purposes of the ICSID proceedings.  However, the tribunal sided with Pakistan, stressing that Impregilo’s right to represent GBC and act on its behalf were irrelevant to the jurisdiction of the tribunal. Indeed, holding otherwise would allow municipal contracts and agreements (such as the joint-venture contractual framework) to expand the jurisdictional scope of the ICSID Convention and the BIT, as claimants lacking scope for their own ICSID claim could simply find a representative with the needed nationality and authorize such representatives to bring the claim.  The tribunal also rejected Impregilo’s efforts to claim on behalf of the other non-Italian joint-venture participants. As none of the other participants were protected “investors” under the Italy-Pakistan BIT, the tribunal lacked jurisdiction over their claims.  Observing that one of the other joint-venture participants was a German national, the tribunal stressed that a BIT was in force between Germany and Pakistan, although it contained no dispute-resolution mechanism for investors. In the tribunal’s view, it would be “curious” to allow German nationals to utilize rights that were not available under Germany’s treaty with Pakistan.  Besides, were Impregilo to be awarded damages for the full joint-venture, the tribunal would be unable to compel it to repay these sums to the other participants. Thus, the tribunal had jurisdiction only over Impregilo and its losses.