Investors pass the “effective seat” test   Similar to Venezuela’s position in the earlier Tenaris arbitration, the respondent once again argued that the treaties’ references to investors having a “seat” in the putative home countries meant that this was more than a mere legal seat in Luxembourg and Portugal, but rather an “effective seat”. Since Venezuela alleged that the effective seat of the claimants was in Argentina, they arguably did not meet the BIT’s requirements.  The tribunal started by noting that international law – the relevant interpretative framework – could accept a distinction between “statutory” and “effective” seat. The tribunal then observed that the BITs required protected investors to be properly constituted under the laws of Luxembourg and Portugal. The seat requirement was in addition to this incorporation requirement, thus implying that the former was not merely a “statutory seat”. In the tribunal’s view, this meant that the seat reference was to some form of “effective seat”.  Thus, the tribunal needed to confirm the content of this concept under international law. While the laws of Luxembourg and Portugal were not controlling, they were relevant. With the assistance of the parties’ local experts’ submissions, the tribunal focused on three factors that indicated an investor’s effective seat: where management and shareholder meetings take place; where the economic activities are conducted; and where the books and accounts are located.  With respect to these three criteria, Venezuela failed to prove that Tenaris and Talta’s effective seats were in Argentina. Although the former had numerous employees there, they were attached to a subsidiary with its own corporate identity, and were thus irrelevant to the determination of Tenaris’s own seat.  On the contrary, the tribunal accepted that both investors’ effective seats were aligned with their statutory seats. In that respect, it mattered that both companies were, in substance, holdings companies (although Talta was not formally registered as such), the activities of which consisted in managing their portfolio and thus did not require much commercial activity.