Investor could not have a legitimate expectation that regulatory framework would not be altered   The tribunal proceeded to find that, as at October 2012, a few weeks before Spain introduced the impugned 7% tax on electricity production, the claimant could not have had a legitimate expectation that the regulatory framework would not take an unfavourable turn. Indeed, at that date, the regime had already been modified several times in ways unfavourable to the investors, always with a goal of fixing the tariff deficit.  (This appears to distinguish the Eiser case from the Isolux case, as the Eiser claimants took their decision to invest following the introduction of the original regime, in 2007.)  Indeed, jurisprudence from the Spanish Supreme Court had several times insisted that the Spanish authorities had the power to modify the regulatory regimes and that plant-owners should not expect that the remuneration regime remain unaltered.  In the Supreme Court’s view, as spelled out in a 2009 judgment, the only limit to the government’s power to adapt the regulatory regime was the legislative commitment to ensure “reasonable returns” for renewable energy producers.  In the view of the tribunal, here was the only legitimate expectation that Isolux could have held when it decided to invest.  The tribunal stressed that this domestic jurisprudence was not binding upon it, but could be useful to determine the investor’s expectations. Indeed, although an exhaustive legal assessment was not expected of the investor, “it can be presumed that [the investor has] knowledge of the important decisions of the supreme judicial authority with respect to the investment’s regulatory framework.”  Besides, the tribunal stressed, Isolux’s Spanish parent, ISOLUX, had been engaged in domestic litigation, made multiple references to this jurisprudence, and lost before the Supreme Court even before Isolux invested. This rendered Isolux, the tribunal held, “a particularly well-informed investor.”