On merits, disputes about facts take central stage   The tribunal’s 2007 decision on the merits noted that the parties derived different interpretations from a factual record that was otherwise mostly agreed upon.  As we recounted in our separate piece , Vivendi and CAA alleged that the Tucumán province’s officials had caused it to terminate the Concession Agreement, after they incited customers to cease payment of their water bills, and otherwise defeated the smooth operation of the Concession through regulatory action.  In Argentina’s view, CAA could only blame itself for its difficulties in collecting payment: the company had substantially increased the value of invoices shortly after taking over, and badly managed episodes of water turbidity that lasted for several weeks.  On the facts, the tribunal’s sympathy went to CAA, who had inherited deeply defective water and sewage facilities and equipment, and went to great lengths to overhaul and repair the previous neglect. Invoices were in line with the provisions of the Concession Agreement, as originally acknowledged by the water regulator itself. The turbidity episodes, unexpected at the time CAA took over and which posed no sanitary risk, had been managed with “efficiency and professionalism”, the tribunal said.  By contrast, the tribunal found, the Tucumán authorities reacted in a way that undermined the efforts of CAA and worsened the public panic with respect to the episodes. For instance, officials who had sought to allay public concern were replaced on the spot with political appointees.  The tribunal stressed the context in which all of this took place, and in particular the intense political opposition to the privatisation of water and sewages services in Tucumán. To CAA’s misfortune, a party resolutely opposed to the privatisation took over the government of the province a few months after it began operating, and at the end of a campaign where the privatisation had been one of the main issues. The Tucumán legislature soon issued a resolution asking CAA to revise its tariff, despite the provisions of the Concession Agreement, and in a retroactive manner.  “Political attacks” continued even when negotiations between CAA and the province were underway to adopt a new Concession Agreement. Individual legislators volunteered to explain to customers how to make claims against CAA and stop paying their bills without being cut off from the service. To CAA’s dismay, a renegotiated agreement, agreed upon in a third round of negotiations after the ICSID proceedings had been started, was then substantially amended by the legislature.  CAA terminated the Concession Agreement in August 1997; at that time, its invoice collection rate was 20%. However, the company had to continue operating the water and sewage services post-termination, for more than a year, while the province sought an alternative. Thereafter, the provincial officials continued to prevent CAA from collecting outstanding invoices.