In new award in second Tenaris case, arbitrators weigh in on the effects of Venezuela’s denunciation of ICSID Convention – and then find the state liable for BIT breach     (Editor’s Note: this article discusses the jurisdictional and liability findings in ICSID case No. ARB/12/23; a second article, available here , discusses the award’s findings as to the compensation’s quantum).   A new award against Venezuela, dated December 12, 2016, has recently been released by the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Awards (ICSID). Consistent with information previously disclosed by the lead claimant, the 200-page Spanish language award [ download here ] ordered Venezuela to pay more than $137 million with interest for the expropriation of the claimants’ assets under the Luxembourg-Venezuela and the Portugal-Venezuela BITs.  This is the second ICSID dispute pitting Venezuela against Luxembourg-based Tenaris and its wholly-owned Portuguese subsidiary, Talta-Trading. In an award rendered in January of 2016 (ICSID Case No. ARB/11/26), a differently-composed tribunal chaired by John Beechey, held Venezuela liable for the unlawful expropriation of the claimants’ investment. As we later reported , efforts by Venezuela to annul that award are now underway.  While the first award concerned the claimants’ stake in an entity producing hot briquetted iron (HBI), the second arbitration relates to Tenaris’s 70% indirect shareholding in Tavsa, a Venezuelan entity producing steel tubes, and Talta’s minority shareholding in Comsigua, another producer of HBI.  Arbitrators in this second case were Arbitrator 
   (presiding), Arbitrator 
   (claimants’ appointee) and Arbitrator 
   (respondent’s appointee). Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP represented the claimants, while Venezuela was assisted by Foley Hoag LLP.  Below we examined the tribunals’ jurisdictional holdings* and its finding of expropriation. In a companion article, we discuss the damages reasoning.  Since Venezuela’s jurisdictional objections touched on the implications of its 2012 denunciation of the ICSID Convention, the tribunal’s reasoning may be of particular interest to other investors and states that find themselves grappling with the consequences of such denunciations.**