Most of the Mondev’s claims stumble on ratione temporis jurisdictional objection   Mondev’s claims were based upon NAFTA’s articles 1110 (expropriation), 1102 (discrimination) and 1105 (minimum standard of treatment).  However, the US objected to the tribunal’s jurisdiction over the claims, arguing that all relevant facts occurred before the entry into force of NAFTA, on January 1, 1994. Furthermore, the respondent stressed that the time bar under NAFTA’s article 1116(2) – which requires investors to bring a claim within three years of having knowledge of the loss or damage – applied to all these claims.  With respect to Mondev’s expropriation and discrimination claims, the tribunal conceded that conduct preceding 1994 could be relevant as part of “continuing breaches”, but stressed that the alleged discrimination or expropriation were necessarily completed before 1994. Thus, the tribunal was barred from deciding these claims.  This left only Mondev’s claim under article 1105 standing, as it related to conduct that occurred both before and after 1994. More precisely, only one aspect of the claim occurred after the entry into force of the NAFTA: the American courts’ treatment of Mondev’s appeals. Since the SJC’s last decision occurred in 1998, the claimant had managed to lodge its claim within the 3 year time window prescribed by NAFTA Chapter 11.  However, the tribunal made clear that it would rule in favour of the investor only if these judicial decisions were breaches of NAFTA in their own right, stressing that “[t]he mere fact that earlier conduct has gone unremedied or unredressed when a treaty enters into force does not justify a tribunal applying the treaty retrospectively to that conduct”.  (As we reported, this holding was cited with approval in the recent Spence Intl v. Costa Rica award, where the tribunal similarly concluded that it had jurisdiction only to decide if judicial decisions that occurred within the relevant timeframe are a breach of CAFTA in their own right.)