Tribunal rejects Yemen’s interpretation as entailing a contradiction in the treaty   Finding textual arguments unhelpful,* the tribunal concentrated its attention on the structure of the BIT’s jurisdictional clause. Crucially, the tribunal found that article 10(2) was a fork-in-the-road clause: claimants were invited to submit “any legal dispute” to either Yemeni courts, or to an ICSID tribunal.  The proviso mentioning the “amount of compensation” was inserted just after this second option, and reads: “either Contracting Party shall give its irrevocable consent to the submission of any dispute relating to the amount of compensation for expropriation for resolution under such arbitration procedure. Other disputes submitted under such procedure shall be mutually agreed upon between both Contracting parties.”  The tribunal found that this language was inconclusive with respect to the “narrow” and “broad” interpretations debated between the parties. Accordingly, the interpretation should rely on the context, as well as on the treaty’s object and purpose. (The tribunal here hewed very closely, and sometimes explicitly, to the analysis of the “five judge panel of the Singapore Court of Appeal” mentioned above .)  As to the proviso’s context, the tribunal found that Yemen’s “narrow” interpretation would lead to a contradiction in the treaty, a fate that the claimant’s “broad” one would escape.  Indeed, under Yemen’s interpretation, an investor could resort to ICSID arbitration only where the respondent state conceded liability in the first place, and would be limited to local court adjudication otherwise. This reading would offer the respondent state control over the investor’s access to international arbitration,** whereas the treaty’s fork-in-the-road clause is framed, by contrast, in terms of the investor’s choice between the two options. (Here as well, the tribunal found support for this analysis in the award in Tza Yap Shum and the Singapore Court of Appeal’s decision in Sanum .)  As to the BIT’s object and purpose, the tribunal paid lip-service to the notion that arbitrators should not read too much into it. (Indeed, in reviewing the respective awards in Sanum and Renta 4 v Russia , both the Singapore High Court and the Svea Court of Appeal have cautioned against using the perceived object and purpose of a BIT to broaden similarly-worded jurisdictional clause). Nonetheless, the tribunal went on to hold that a narrow interpretation would defeat the tribunal’s sense of the treaty’s object and purpose: to promote investments. On the tribunal’s reasoning, without “investor protection”, the BIT “would be seen as a trap for unwary investors instead of an incentive for them to invest […].”*** (The tribunal did not refer to any empirical support for this perception.)