Expert Gary Born weighs in on the propriety of using anonymous experts   The procedural record includes an unusual procedural dispute over the claimants’ reliance on anonymous submissions.  The claimants filed their counter-memorial on jurisdiction with an accompanying, and anonymously written, expert report, due to alleged risks that might befall the Uzbekistan-based expert and his/her business activities,** were his/her name to be disclosed. Uzbekistan asked the tribunal to exclude this anonymous expert report from the record, stressing the harm that would befall it if it were deprived of the ability to attempt to impeach the credibility of witnesses testifying against it.  In a procedural order dated December 30, 2014, the tribunal rejected this request, citing “several reports submitted [by Claimants] pointing to political conditions within Uzbekistan as well as the citations to the alleged treatment of other interested parties in this dispute [that] prima facie […] support Claimants’ assertion of a substantial risk to the expert assuming the identity of the expert is disclosed.” This was, however, without prejudice to a later decision as to any weight that might be given to these anonymous submissions.  Uzbekistan repeated its request a few months later, this time with an expert report from Arbitrator 
   identifying the issues entailed by such anonymous expert report in terms of procedural fairness. He cited, for example, the difficulties in efficiently cross-examining the report’s anonymous authors. In Mr. Born’s opinion, an award that relied on such experts – where the opposing party was not provided the opportunity to cross-examine them – risked annulment on due process/fairness grounds  Mr. Born concluded that the tribunal should only depart from the general rule (experts need to be identified) on compelling grounds, and a proportional solution should be sought. Such solution could take the shape of testimony on an ‘attorney’s eyes only’ basis – without the presence of Uzbek officials – and subject to the signature of a Non-Disclosure Agreement by Uzbekistan’s counsel.