Overview: what’s happening in Egypt-Israel gas pipeline arbitrations    Setbacks continue to pile up for a pair of Egyptian state-owned companies, EGAS and EGPC, embroiled in a multi-arbitration* dispute over a controversial gas pipeline between Israel and Egypt.  Last week, Israel-owned company Electric Co announced in a statement that a Swiss court, the Swiss Federal Tribunal, has declined to set aside an ICC award that had awarded hefty damages against the two Egyptian state-owned companies, EGAS and EGPC.   As we reported in 2015 , the ICC tribunal had ordered EGAS and EGPC to compensate Electric Co and another party, East Mediterranean Gas Company (EMG), after Egypt halted the operation of a pipeline that supplied gas to Israel and repudiated a related gas supply agreement. The ICC tribunal, which was chaired by Arbitrator 
   , had awarded more than $2 billion to the claimants ($324 million to EMG, $1.76 billion to Electric Co).  This ruling opens the way for Electric Co to seek to enforce the award, although the Egyptian government reportedly intends to negotiate a settlement, in a framework where Israel might turn from importer to exporter of gas to Egypt (in the event reversing the flow of the pipeline managed by EMG).  Meanwhile, the Egyptian parties suffered another arbitral setback in recent weeks in relation to a claim that they had launched in 2012 with the Cairo Regional Centre for International Commercial Arbitration (CRCICA). The Egyptian parties alleged that they had lawfully terminated the gas supply agreement as a result of EMG’s alleged breaches of that agreement. EMG submitted counterclaims in an amount of more than $3.5 billion.  In April of this year, the CRCICA tribunal of Lord Collins of Mapesbury (Chair), Arbitrator 
   and Arbitrator 
   rendered an award accepting certain of EMG’s counterclaims and holding EGAS and EGPC liable for the termination of the agreement.  While the April 7, 2017 partial award is not available, disclosures made in the context of US bankruptcy proceedings confirm that a separate damages phase is yet to play out.