Manifest excess of powers in failing to rule on Vivendi’s treaty claims   The claimants were more successful with the second ground for annulment: a manifest excess of powers on the part of the tribunal.  In the committee’s view, such manifest excess of powers could be found both when a tribunal ruled beyond its jurisdiction, and when it failed to exercise the jurisdiction it possessed (provided, the committee qualified, that such failure had an impact on the dispute’s outcome).  The committee then distinguished the claimants’ allegations with respect to the federal government and to the Tucumán authorities. It found that the tribunal had sufficiently answered the claimants’ federal claims with no manifest excess of powers. It also declined to find, as urged by the claimants, that the treatment of these claims was “intimately linked” with the claims regarding the Tucumán authorities (so that if the portion of the award dealing with the latter was annulled, the treatment of the federal claims should be annulled as well). As a result, the committee found that the tribunal’s handling of the claims regarding Argentina’s federal government was res judicata .  It was however the tribunal’s treatment of the claims regarding the Tucumán authorities that caused the partial annulment of the award.  In reasoning that would prove very influential for future tribunals (see Eureko v. Poland , or Crystallex v. Venezuela ), the committee stressed the distinction between treaty claims and contract claims. Each stood to be appreciated in accordance with its own law – international law for treaty claims, Argentine laws for the claims concerning the Concession Agreement. The measures underlying a contractual breach could, at the same time, suffice for a treaty breach.  In the committee’s view, what mattered then was the “fundamental basis of the claim” before the tribunal. If the claim was essentially contractual in nature, an international tribunal should give effect to the valid forum selection clause in the contract (a finding that later played out in Saluka v. Czech Republic , or in Tenaris v. Venezuela ).  By contrast, when the basis of the claim was a treaty, such a clause could not bar the jurisdiction of an international tribunal under a BIT. “At most, [the proceedings for contractual breaches] might be relevant – as municipal law will often be relevant – in assessing whether there has been a breach of the treaty.”  In the committee’s view, the claimants took the risk*** of having their claims resolved by an international tribunal (under a presumably higher standard for treaty breaches than for contractual breaches), and had been deprived of this opportunity by the tribunal’s manifest excess of powers in declining to rule on these claims. The award was therefore annulled with respect to the Tucumán claims.