Investor complains of “brutal” reversal of regulatory conditions   Readers who have followed the multiples proceedings filed against Spain by solar energy investors in recent years (see here or here ) will recall that one of the bones of contention between the state and the aggrieved investors lies in the cumulative revision of the system of remunerative incentives governing renewable energy producers. We described the evolution of Spain’s regulatory environment in our report on the Eiser v Spain award (see here ).  Notably, the original remuneration regime, adopted in 2007 was not adapted to cope with the intervening financial crisis and the degradation of Spain’s finances. With a view to mitigating the growing “tariff deficit,” Spain set out to amend the terms of the “feed-in tariff” (FiT) remuneration system in 2010. These first regulatory actions gave rise, in particular, to the Charanne, BV v Spain arbitration, which concerned the same assets as the Isolux dispute (see here ).  The 2010 measures did not suffice to solve Spain’s financial straits, however, and the state chose to impose a 7% tax on electricity production in 2012, before amending, and ultimately rolling-back, the FiT system between 2013 and 2014. The FiT remuneration regime was eventually replaced by a system that calculated a “reasonable rate of return” based on the costs and performance of a hypothetical standard plant.  While the Charanne tribunal found that the 2010 measures did not breach the ECT, the Eiser tribunal later found that Spain’s subsequent measures amounted to a “dramatic” regulatory change that ran afoul of the protections of the treaty, and in particular the Fair and Equitable Treatment standard.  Isolux’s claim were similar to those of the Eiser claimants and targeted the same measures. Yet, as we discuss below, the Isolux tribunal came, however, to a different conclusion with respect to breach of the ECT. (As noted below, one partial explanation for the differing outcomes may be that the respective investors invested at different junctures, perhaps creating differing expectations.)