Experts eventually balk and withdraw their reports despite the claimants’ wishes   The claimants accepted this latter solution, and the tribunal decided further that, in a first stage, the anonymous experts would be heard separately during the first hearing on jurisdiction that took place from July 28, to August 1, 2015. In a second stage, the tribunal would decide on the weight to give to this evidence.  However, due to subsequent events at the hearing – specifically “disclosures by Respondent’s counsel” –, “the Anonymous Experts feared they would be identified and declined to testify.” Although the disclosures were ‘accepted-as-inadvertent’, the experts’ oral testimony was postponed.  In the lead-up to the second hearing, the claimants flagged an email that had been sent to the tribunal by the respondent’s counsel, and copied to an Uzbek government official, which allegedly included confidential information regarding the anonymous experts. Although the respondent’s counsel insisted that the government official deleted the mail without reading it, the claimants reported that the experts had lost all faith in the ability of the respondent’s counsel to safeguard their identity from disclosure and thus indicated that they were no longer willing to testify whatsoever.  The tribunal, “concerned that it had a responsibility to ensure the good order and fairness of these proceedings”, asked the anonymous experts if they wanted their reports to be withdrawn from the record, to further protect them from retaliation. Whereas the experts ultimately expressed such a wish, the claimants argued in favour of keeping their expert submissions on record.  The tribunal, which acknowledged the difficult position of each party in these circumstances, ultimately preferred to exclude the anonymous expert reports from the record. It allowed however some of the accompanying exhibits to be reintroduced in the record.  Although relations between claimants and respondent states are sometimes fraught, and allegations that witnesses are at risk are not infrequent (see, for example, Quiborax v Bolivia ), this is the first time to our knowledge that a claimant feels the need to shield local experts from retaliation from a respondent state by seeking to hide his or her name. ( We’ve written about cases against other autocratic regimes in Central Asia, where claimants insist that they could find no local attorneys who would agree to serve as experts against the government.)  The complications detailed in the Kim v. Uzbekistan decision bear witness to the practical difficulties involved in finding an effective means of admitting anonymous testimony while protecting the witnesses and the due process rights of the other party.