Objection ratione materiae : claimant’s fortuitous investment should not be protected   The crux of Algeria’s next objection was that OTMTI had acquired shares in Weather Investments, an Italian entity that (indirectly) owned shares in Djezzy, for the sole purpose of leveraging Weather Investments’ assets with a view to acquiring Wind, an Italian telecoms company. In Algeria’s view, not only was OTMTI’s alleged investment in Djezzy indirect and remote, it was also purely accidental, of a kind that should not be protected under the BIT. Algeria also denied that OTMTI made any reinvestment in Algeria.  The claimant contested this narrative, and in the alternative contended that it was irrelevant for jurisdictional purposes. It added, against Algeria’s objections, that its “contribution” to the investment included, among others, the provision of know-how, services, and assets to Djezzy, but also – and more interestingly – the mere fact of bringing Djezzy within the umbrella of a stronger, international organisation, improving its credit-worthiness and its access to international financial markets in the move.  In answer, the tribunal held that any investment, both under the BIT and the ICSID Convention, had “basic economic attributes” including “contribution or allocation of resources, duration and risk.” Accordingly, even though OTMTI’s indirect stake in Djezzy coincided with one of the example of investment listed in the BIT (i.e., “company shares … including minority of indirect participation”), this did not end the matter.  For the tribunal, however, it was irrelevant that OTMTI acquired this indirect stake in the context of a corporate restructuring whose purpose was to acquire Wind. The BIT explicitly cited indirect ownership in local companies as an example of investment, and OTMTI’s stake had all the features of an investment under both the ICSID Convention and the BIT. In particular, the tribunal accepted that the sums expended, in various manners, by OTMTI to acquire its stake in Weather Investments (and then, indirectly, in Djezzy) qualified as a contribution.  The award also put to rest Algeria’s objection that none of these contributions took place in Algeria. The arbitrators relied on the holdings in Gold Reserve v Venezuela , according to which investments do not need to involve funds flowing directly in the host state to qualify under the BIT (see here ).  In a second article , we look further at the objections that eventually stalled OTMTI’s claims.