NAFTA’s Article 1105 incorporates customary international law as it evolved – and nothing more   This left only the claims under article 1105 to decide. Yet, this article’s meaning at the time was still unclear.  The Mondev tribunal was the second tribunal to deal with this question following the FTC’s Notes of interpretation. As the award records, the disputing parties, but also Mexico and Canada in third-party submissions, spent a long time discussing the Notes, their relevance to the case, as well as the holdings in Pope &amp; Talbot v. Canada (where another NAFTA tribunal considered that it was not bound by the Notes, as they were an amendment to NAFTA, and not a mere interpretation).  Although it refrained from deciding all these issues, the tribunal chose to clarify several contested points. As a first step, it accepted that NAFTA embodied the customary international law standard, but rejected Canada’s suggestion that customary international law was properly captured by the dictum in the 1927 Neer case. Indeed, the tribunal noted that this case concerned the physical security of aliens, and not foreign investment; besides, the minimum standard evolves with time. “To the modern eye, what is unfair or inequitable need not equate with the outrageous or the egregious.”  The tribunal found support for this evolution within the network of bilateral investment treaties signed in the 20 th century, most of which refer to “fair and equitable treatment” (FET). It reasoned that these treaties constitute state practice, and, together with the decisions of international tribunals, they should help the tribunal to find a standard of “fairness” and “equitable” that is not entirely idiosyncratic.  The award continued that, in this respect, the FTC Notes of interpretation did two things: first they confirmed that the minimum standard under article 1105 was that found in customary international law and not elsewhere.  Second, the Notes made clear that mentions of “fair and equitable treatment”, and “full protection and security” added nothing to the minimum standard. These references in the Notes were not useless, however: they confirmed that these elements, which were precisely those developed by state practice in the 20 th century, were included in the minimum standard as encapsulated by NAFTA.