Tribunal is not satisfied with past precedents and offers its own test of legality requirement   The parties were also in disagreement regarding what was covered by the legality requirement – for example, whether any breach of Uzbek law could suffice to deny the tribunal jurisdiction. The tribunal acknowledged that a “dominant tendency” in past investment jurisprudence had been to restrict the requirement to breaches of “fundamental laws”, and to use “rule-like statements” to frame the requirement’s application.  However, the tribunal expressed its dissatisfaction with this approach. The tribunal considered these “rule-like statements” to be sometimes too detached from the terms of the underlying BITs; besides, although these rule-like statements “provide the comfort of certainty” (rules are clearer and more easily applicable than broad principles), they can be unjustifiably under or over-inclusive.  Rather than adopting “unmoored rule-like statements” from past precedents, the tribunal focused its analysis on the treaty’s article 12. In its view, the “bare bones language” of this article called for the application of a “principle”, as opposed to rules. The tribunal found that the legality requirement, properly interpreted, was neither limited to fundamental rules nor extensive enough as to cover minor acts of non-compliance with Uzbek law.  Rather, then, the “harsh” consequence that results from a breach of this requirement (i.e., that the treaty’s protection would cease to apply entirely to the investment) called for a “proportional” approach, whereby:  “the legality requirement in the BIT denies the protections of the BIT to claims when the investment involved was made in noncompliance with a law of Uzbekistan where together the act of noncompliance and the content of the legal obligation results in a compromise of a correspondingly significant interest of Uzbekistan.”  The tribunal contrasted this principle of proportionality with the “rule-based” approach adopted by others tribunals, but accepted that these rules often pointed to factors relevant for the analysis. It gave the example of the tribunal in Anderson v Costa Rica (see here ), which found, the claimants argued, that an investment made in good faith could still benefit from the treaty’s protection. For the tribunal, good faith was one factor to take into account, but could not constitute an exception to the legality requirement in itself.  As such, the tribunal advocated a three-step analysis, whereby it would first review the importance of the law allegedly breached, second the seriousness of the alleged breach, and third whether the combination of these two elements “results in a compromise of a significant interest of the Host State to such an extent that the harshness of the sanction of placing the investment outside of the protections of the BIT is a proportionate consequence for the violation examined”.