Presiding arbitrator looks at article 72 and hints at irrelevance of denunciation of ICSID in BIT disputes   In the Blue Bank case, the parties also debated the interpretation of article 72 of the ICSID Convention, which provides that a notice denouncing the Convention “shall not affect the rights or obligations under this Convention of that State […] arising out of consent to the jurisdiction of the Centre given […] before such notice was received by the depositary.”  In Venezuela’s view, this confirmed that consent to arbitration could only be “perfected” before the notice of denunciation is sent, not after – because the offer cannot be effective anymore once a state withdraws from ICSID. In Blue Bank’s view, however, this article was either inapplicable to the case, or it only meant that unilateral offers to arbitrate can survive the denunciation of the convention.  Although the majority of the tribunal thought it was unnecessary to discuss this point, Mr Söderlund appended a separate, concurring opinion to the award, where he explains his thinking regarding this article.  On his view, the ICSID Convention was drafted and signed without regard for the modern system of consent to arbitration contained in bilateral and multilateral investment treaties (the convention’s drafters were mostly contemplating investment contracts).  Article 72 appears predicated on an older model where there is a unilateral “offer” to arbitrate that can be later “accepted” in order to “perfect” consent.  By contrast, however, the reciprocal, state-to-state nature of the obligations between a BIT’s contracting parties means that the offer to arbitrate included in the BIT is more than a unilateral “standing offer” as contemplated by article 72. Rather, it is “ mutual consent” between the parties to the BIT. Such consent is enduring under the BIT, and does not need to be “perfected” by a later acceptance. This means that this consent remains valid as long as the BIT is not terminated, and article 72 is thus irrelevant here.  Mr Söderlund thus appeared to posit that a denunciation of the ICSID Convention would not necessarily bar a claimant from invoking a state’s consent to ICSID arbitration as found in a BIT. Although he found some statements in the drafting history of the Convention to this effect, Mr Söderlund deemed it unnecessary to square this with the ICSID Convention’s jurisdictional requirements (which require the respondent state to be a contracting party).  Indeed, he mused that good faith “may preserve an investor’s right to access to ICSID arbitration where the State has undertaken to maintain that promise for the duration of a particular BIT.” These considerations will probably be of interest for investors who filed ICSID arbitration requests against Venezuela after 2012, such as Valores Mundiales or Agroinsumo .**