Tribunal has jurisdiction to order second set of provisional measures as tax carve-out in the BIT does not apply…   Having already ruled on the emergency request, the tribunal subsequently decided the claimants’ second request for provisional measures in a November 22, 2016 decision [ click to download ].  As it turned out, Romania’s administrative courts had earlier quashed the contested VAT assessment, prompting Gabriel Resources to drop that part of its provisional measures request. Accordingly, the November 22, 2016 decision addressed only the claimants’ request with respect to the documents and information gathered by the Romanian authorities during the tax and anti-fraud investigations. (The claimants expressed concern that these documents might be used against them in the ICSID arbitration.)  Romania argued that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to accede to this request, given the carve-out for tax measures included in the Canada-Romania BIT. While Gabriel Resources sought to rely on the absence of such a carve-out in the Romania-UK BIT, Romania cited the precedent of EuroGas v Slovakia, also arbitrated under two BITs (see here ), for the proposition that a party cannot “pick and choose between what they consider to be the more favorable provisions under the two BITs.”  The tribunal, however, rejected Romania’s reading of the EuroGas developments, and suggested instead that the way to deal with two divergent BITs requires a case-by-case assessment. The tribunal explained that the consolidation of the two BIT claims in the Gabriel Resources v. Romania case “does not amount to a re-writing, substituting or setting aside of the legal entitlements of the parties under the UK – Romania BIT” and that it is not true that the “more stringent or narrower provision in two incompatible BITs should always prevail.”  In any case, and on the merits, the tribunal was not satisfied that the carve-out applied in this case, as the claimants were not asking to put an end to the antifraud or tax investigations, but merely seeking to protect the integrity of the arbitration with respect to the documents and evidence collected during these investigations.