Some of the tribunal’s factual findings are rebuked, including in relation to relationship of Belokon and former President’s son   Turning to the allegations of money laundering, the Court of appeal acknowledged that, at the time of the arbitral award, and while the Kyrgyz Republic’s defence lay “entirely” in these allegations, no criminal court had found them to be proven. (Indeed, this is still the case to this day, with no clear view of where exactly the still-ongoing local criminal proceedings stand at the present.)  Nonetheless, the Court of appeal stressed that prohibition of money laundering is part of French international public policy; and while the court, in set aside proceedings, cannot give a determination on the criminal charges brought against any particular defendant, it has to ensure in reviewing the award that recognition or enforcement of the award would not run counter to international public policy. Thus, in this respect, it was not relevant that there has been no final determination in Kyrgyzstan of the money laundering claims.  On the facts, the Court stressed the power that Maxim Bakiev, son of Kurmanbek Bakiev, President of the Republic between 2005 and 2010, had over the country’s economy. At the same time, Maxim Bakiev was known to Mr Belokon (they notably co-founded a Latvian company in 2006). When the Kyrgyz Republic had put this relationship before the arbitrators, they found that they could not “make a positive determination that there was anything improper in the Claimant’s acquaintance with Mr. Bakiev’s son, Maxim Bakiev, which was not shown to have been more than superficial”.  In a rebuke, the Court of appeal held that this relationship “appear[ed] as being not superficial, and could be considered inappropriate, insofar” as Mr Bakiev benefitted from Manas Bank in some ways that could be “categorized as misuse of corporate assets” (Of particular note,, Maxim Bakiev lived in Manas Bank’s building without paying rent).  A similar rebuke was directed at the tribunal’s failure to make a positive determination (citing insufficient evidence) about the propriety of the auction process whereby Mr. Belokon had acquired the local bank that was later renamed as Manas Bank). In the Court’s assessment, the evidence put forward by Kyrgyzstan “established sufficiently that the auction process unfolded in irregular circumstances”. Indeed, the other bidder in that auction was Mr Belokon’s lawyer and was related to him in various ways – including a contract signed between Mr Belokon and one of the companies owned by his lawyer, that had been concluded prior to the auction’s results, and yet pertained to setting up of local premises for the targeted bank.  In seeking to rebut the money laundering allegations, Mr Belokon had relied on the results of an audit of Manas Bank in 2010 that found nothing illegal. The Court, however, accepted that the evidence gave support to the Kyrgyz Republic’s view that the auditor’s impartiality was doubtful, as she owned several safes at the bank’s premises, containing several million dollars in cash. While this evidence had been put before the tribunal, the tribunal had not commented on it. However, for the Court, this evidence cast strong doubt on the reliability of these audits.