Majority departs from precedent and identifies the customary international law roots of corporate nationality test   The tribunal recalled that, under Article 25 of the ICSID Convention, it had jurisdiction over disputes brought by “nationals of a Contracting State.” However, the Convention left the definition of “nationality” for states to elaborate – as they did here in defining “investors” under the BIT.  For a majority of the tribunal,** the term “siège social” should not be interpreted with reference to the criteria of corporate nationality under the domestic laws of the parties to the BIT, as was argued by Algeria. Rather, “siège social” had an autonomous meaning under the BIT, one disconnected from the use of this term in domestic settings.  Readers will recall that both Tenaris and Talta tribunals, which found that “siège social” meant “effective seat,” had similarly played down the relevance of domestic laws in interpreting the term. However, the OTMTI tribunal ultimately found that “siège social” meant statutory seat (or “registered office”), and not “effective seat”.  Dictionary definitions of the French and Dutch terms firstly supported this interpretation. More importantly, though, the majority explained that the first Tenaris and Talta tribunal had based its interpretation of “siège social” on the principle of effet utile : since the BIT’s definition requires that companies be constituted and have their “siège social” in one of the BIT’s contracting parties, the argument went, the second requirement would be redundant if “siège social” just meant statutory seat. (The first Tenaris and Talta tribunal also found support for this thesis in the BIT’s object and purpose.)  The majority in OTMTI’s case disagreed with this analysis, finding that the BIT’s definition merely cited the two strands of the standard test to identify a corporate entity’s nationality under customary international law: constitution (in accordance with national law) and registered office (as appearing on the company’s constitutive documents).  This double test had been endorsed, in particular, by the ICJ in Barcelona Traction: the Court saw in these two conditions the “traditional rule” for determining a corporate entity’s nationality. In the majority’s view, if the ICJ was not guilty of flouting the principle of effet utile in looking at both constitution and statutory seat, the BIT was not either.  This conclusion was supported by supplementary means of interpretation under Article 32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. While the Tenaris and Talta tribunal had found the BLEU’s treaty practice inconclusive, a focus on BLEU BITs that had been concluded in French and English (rather than on all BLEU BITs, as the Tenaris and Talta tribunal did) showed that the English version – often the authoritative one – adopted “registered office” as a translation of “siège social.”  Besides, and even more to the point, the travaux préparatoires revealed that Belgium fended off an attempt by Algeria to add a “genuine connection” requirement to the BIT’s definition of “investor.” Belgium’s argument even included a reference to the aforementioned holdings of the Barcelona Traction judgment. As a result, the tribunal was satisfied that “siège social” meant “statutory seat” or “registered office.”