Arbitrators find fault with courts’ misapplication of statute of limitations rule   At the outset, the tribunal acknowledged that the contributions of the Tatarstan parties to the joint venture had shifted and that the justifications for this departure did not “appear to be quite convincing.” Nevertheless, the tribunal observed that this new approach had been unanimously endorsed by the shareholders at the time – among which sat many high-level Ukrainian officials.  Thus, the tribunal was dubious about the decision, a decade later, to seek annulment of these shareholders resolutions before the Kyiv Economic Court. Rather, the tribunal was troubled by the “questionable” role of the Prosecutor following Korsan’s first investment in Ukrtatnafta.  Indeed, as related below, the involvement of the Prosecutor appeared to be a common thread between all actions taken by Privat Group to take control of Ukrtatnafta. Without expressly characterizing this as a form of collusion or corruption, the tribunal took note of the numerous coincidences between Korsan’s increasing interest in Ukrtatnafta, and the proceedings initiated, reopened or litigated by the Prosecutor.  The Prosecutor’s actions were facilitated by the Ukrainian court’s flexible application of the statute of limitations in the various cases related above. While professing that it “does not sit as a reviewer of the decisions of Ukrainian courts,” the tribunal however had doubts regarding this application.  With respect to the proceedings before the Kyiv court, the tribunal held that the Prosecutor – whose “duty” was “to keep abreast of situations which have been the subject of an investigation” – knew or should have known by 2002-2003 of the Tatarstan side’s alleged violations of the joint-venture agreement through its modified contributions.  Even less convincing was the Poltava court’s finding that Ukrtatnafta’s actions against Tatneft’s share purchase agreements were not time-barred. In the tribunal’s view, avenues existed for Ukrtatnafta to challenge these, years before the Kyiv court invalidated the shareholders’ resolutions.  To be sure, Ukraine’s courts enjoyed a measure of discretion in applying a statute of limitations, but this discretion was limited, the tribunal said: “total discretion of the courts […] is incompatible with a legal standard.” And although, seen on its own, the interpretation of the court was “tenable”, the fact that it occurred within “a string of actions seeking the same corporate objective” (taking over Ukrtatnafta) had significance.  Likewise, the reopening of the cases regarding Seagroup and AmRuz’s share purchases was questionable. First, the tribunal was not convinced that the precedent relied on by the Prosecutor was similar enough to these earlier cases to warrant reopening. Second, the Supreme Court’s decision (in a case where the defendants were probably not properly served) was unsubstantiated. That unsubstantiated decisions were a Supreme Court practice at the time was nevertheless “not likely to convince this Tribunal” that the decision was justified.  (At first glance, the tribunal’s approach here seems to differ from that in the Spyridon v. Romania arbitration , where the General Prosecutor had the power to ask the Romanian Supreme Court to remand an otherwise irrevocable judgment; when one such exercise of that prosecutorial discretion and the resulting decision of the Supreme Court were challenged by the investor in that case, the tribunal found no breach of the treaty because the Supreme Court’s decision had been “duly motivated.”)