Venezuela failed to pay prompt compensation   The award further records the arbitrators’ crucial finding that, seven years after the expropriation, neither taking had been compensated, while the BITs require payment to be if not immediate (as required under the Portugal-Venezuela BIT), at least without “unjustified delay” (Luxembourg-Venezuela BIT).  Venezuela denied that this meant the expropriation had been unlawful . Although it never paid any compensation for Tavsa, there was a process leading to such compensation, and Venezuela stressed that this process had never resulted in a judgement ordering it to pay compensation. Indeed, Venezuela contended that it was the investors’ behaviour (in filing the ICSID claim) that had disrupted this process.  As for the taking of Comsigua, Venezuela stressed that, similarly, it was ultimately the investors’ fault if they could not reach an agreement to sell their shares; indeed, Venezuela recalled that Tenaris ultimately declined an offer to sell them at the price previously accepted by the majority investors.  The tribunal sided with the claimant in this context. As for Tavsa, the tribunal found that, under Venezuela’s expropriation laws, it was for the state itself to initiate the process leading to a judgment on compensation. The award decried the “absolute passivity” of Venezuela in this respect, where it took no step to start this process.  Besides, the tribunal found that the failure of the expropriation process, far from being Tenaris’s fault, was mainly due to Venezuela’s having unexpectedly taken control of Tavsa. As for the investors’ refusal to sell their shares in Comsigua, the tribunal read the factual record in their favour: the negotiations failed for causes not imputable to them.  Venezuela’s last defence (that the BITs merely require the existence of a process providing for compensation) was summarily rejected. The mere existence of legislation on expropriation could not save Venezuela from the simple fact that it had failed to pay “immediately” or without “unjustifiable delays” (as demanded by the BITs).  In a companion article, we discuss the award’s quantification of the investors’ losses.