Looking Back: Vivendi v. Argentina saga explored the relation between contract and treaty claims     (Editor’s Note: This is a report in our new series examining investment treaty awards that were rendered prior to the launch of IAReporter in 2008. Other articles in this series can be found here .)    (NB: The dispute – ICSID Case No. ARB/97/3 – should not be confused with a second case involving Vivendi, but also other claimants – ICSID Case No. ARB/03/19.)   The case of Compañiá de Aguas del Aconquija S.A. and Vivendi Universal S.A. v. Argentine Republic was the second case in the 60 known investment disputes in which Argentina has been involved since 1997 (for the most recent case filed, see here ). It was also one of the longest, running from 1997 to 2012 after a first award had been annulled in 2002. In this article, we retrace the development of the first part of this dispute, which saw the (first) tribunal and the subsequent ad hoc committee discuss the role of forum selection clauses, the distinction between contract and treaty claims, and the scope of the “manifest excess of powers” ground for annulment. A second article covers the second set of jurisdictional and merits awards, in the so-called “Vivendi II” case.  French investor Compagnie Générale des Eaux (‘CGE’, the original claimant, later renamed Vivendi Universal) entered through its Argentine subsidiary CAA, into a water and sewage Concession Agreement with the Tucumán province in Argentina in 1995. Disputes soon arose between CAA and the province, leading to the termination of the concession in 1997 – and the filing of an arbitration by the claimants with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) under the 1991 French-Argentina Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). CGE alleged a breach of the BIT’s Fair and Equitable treatment and expropriation protections.  After the first tribunal of Francisco Rezek (chair), Peter D. Trooboff (claimants’ appointee) and Arbitrator 
   (appointed by ICSID in default of Argentina’s nomination) had decided to join Argentina’s jurisdictional objections to the merits, the first proceedings culminated in a November 21, 2000 award ( available here ) that dismissed all of Vivendi and CAA’s claims.  The claimants were represented in this first phase by Arbitrator 
   of Powell, Goldstein, Frazer &amp; Murphy LLP, as well as Argentine lawyer Luis Erize. Argentina, meanwhile, was assisted by its in-house lawyers and Arnold &amp; Porter.