Negotiations period not necessary to perfect the parties’ “consent to jurisdiction”   With respect to the investment in Comsigua, the tribunal similarly found that Talta had complied with the negotiations requirement. The award took time, however, to address Venezuela’s contention that it had no jurisdiction to rule on Tenaris’s indirect loss with respect to Comsigua.  Venezuela stressed that Tenaris had advised it of this dispute and commenced negotiations only a few weeks before the country denounced the Convention. In Venezuela’s view, this meant that the six-months negotiations period was not observed, and its “consent to jurisdiction” absent.  The Luxembourg-Venezuela BIT also provided that investors must choose where to bring their claim, either to the competent national court or to international arbitration, this choice being final. Tenaris opted for ICSID arbitration when they notified Venezuela of the dispute and started the negotiations. But according to Venezuela’s reading of the BIT, the investor had to wait until the end of the negotiations to make this choice. As the six-months period lapsed after Venezuela’s notice of denunciation, the choice of ICSID arbitration was arguably no longer available to the claimant.  In response to Venezuela’s reliance on an opinion by professor Arbitrator 
   , Tenaris offered an expert opinion by professor Arbitrator 
   , who opined that there was a distinction between consent to arbitration and choice of the forum (which occurred, in his view, when Tenaris formally notified Venezuela of the dispute), and submission of the claim to arbitration (which may require the six-months negotiations period to be completed). Professor Schreuer added that to find otherwise would allow states to escape arbitration proceedings by merely denouncing the Convention as soon as they are notified of a dispute.  The tribunal agreed with the claimant’s expert, and saw that nothing prevented an investor from consenting to arbitration and choosing ICSID to bring its claim (as opposed to actually filing for arbitration) before the six months of negotiations had taken place. The tribunal reasoned that this was the only interpretation where the irrevocability of the investor’s choice between arbitration and local proceedings would be meaningful. Given that Tenaris already consented to arbitration (and opted for ICSID) when it notified Venezuela of the dispute, the parties’ consent to jurisdiction had been perfected.