Even failed investments are internationally-protected investments   In a further jurisdictional objection, the US also contested Mondev’s standing. The respondent stressed that the development project failed in 1991; when this happened, LPA’s mortgage over the project was subject to foreclosure, and any rights in the project were allegedly vested in the mortgagor. According to the state, this meant that neither Mondev nor LPA were “investors” in 1994 for NAFTA purposes.  Moreover, because Mondev brought the case in its own name under NAFTA’s article 1116, and not on behalf of LPA under article 1117, the USA stressed that Mondev had failed to prove that it itself suffered damages (as opposed to LPA), and thus lacked standing to bring a claim. (Readers may recall that the NAFTA offers two pathways for investor-state claims, investors can bring claims on their own behalf under Article 1116, or on behalf of an enterprise that they own or control, pursuant to Article 1117.)  For its part, the tribunal noted that NAFTA protects investments even after they have failed – holding otherwise would deprive most NAFTA protections of their effectiveness (such as the prohibition of expropriation). The tribunal also noted that, even after an investment’s failure, at least “[i]ssues of orderly liquidation and the settlement of claims” must still comply with the minimum standard of treatment and in a non-discriminatory manner.  Likewise, the tribunal deemed irrelevant the issue of whether LPA’s rights disappeared with the mortgage’s foreclosure, noting that NAFTA protects failed investments: “[i]n most cases, the dispute submitted to arbitration will concern precisely the question of responsibility for that failure”.  Lastly, arbitrators reasoned that Mondev had undoubted standing to bring the claim under article 1116. The question of whether it itself suffered damages was open to discussion but did not bear on this standing. In the tribunal’s view, the main substantial difference between articles 1116 and 1117 related to the recipient of any compensation: either the foreign investor or the local entity on whose behalf the claim was brought. Given its eventual finding that there was no breach, this distinction was irrelevant in the case.