Judge-made law is a normal feature of common law jurisdictions, and not necessarily a denial of justice   The SJC had decided that LPA’s contractual claims were dependent on whether it performed the contract sufficiently to put the city in breach.  Mondev had three grounds to challenge the propriety of this judgment. First it advanced that the SJC seriously departed from its own jurisprudence and in effect applied a “new rule”. In so doing, the court also appeared to refuse to treat the city as it would any other contractual party (indeed, the SJC had cited a dictum from Justice Holmes to the effect that “[m]en must turn square corners when they deal with the Government”).  Mondev’s second argument lay in the SJC’s refusal, once it made its finding in law, to remand fact-finding questions to a jury. Thirdly, and in any case, Mondev took issue with the SJC’s retroactive application of its “new rule”.  The tribunal was “unimpressed” by the claimant’s first ground; it found nothing shocking or surprising in the SJC’s reasoning on LPA’s contractual claims, and the “square corners” dictum was at most subsidiary to the court’s decision.  Yet crucially, even if the SJC had applied a “new rule”, the tribunal stressed that this is normal and expected in a common law jurisdiction. The same goes for the alleged retroactivity of this “new rule”.  Lastly, the arbitrators refused to find a procedural denial of justice in the SJC’s decision not to remand the case: in its view, the application of such “local procedural rules” fall on local courts to decide, and could not violate article 1105, except in “extreme cases”. Likewise, it is “normally a matter for local courts to determine whether and in what circumstances to apply new decisional law retrospectively”.  Readers will be reminded of the pending NAFTA case in Eli Lilly v. Canada, where the arguments centre around an alleged change of patent regulations by Canadian courts. As we reported , the parties have debated the teachings of the Mondev award, and its lessons could be a matter that the arbitrators must grapple with.