Several attempts to reconsider the partial award are rejected   In this final award, the tribunal was careful not to engage in any reconsideration of its previous findings.  Notably, the award reports that the claimant asked the tribunal to decide on some of its previous claims in light of the partial award’s holdings. The latter had found that, since Ecuador breached the Fair and Equitable Treatment in relation to the 99% levy, it was unnecessary to decide the claimants’ other contentions based on the BIT’s other protections.  In the claimant’s view, this left the way open for a finding that the 50% levy, although it did not breach the FET standard, breached one of these other protections.  The tribunal however sided with the respondent in holding that it had decided these non-FET claims when it found that these claims would leave the amount of damages awarded to Murphy unchanged. It rejected accordingly Murphy’s request as entailing an “unnecessary and duplicative reexamination of the merits”.  Immediately following the partial award, the claimant had also requested the tribunal to make a finding (either by way of a supplementary decision or through reconsideration) on post-award interests on costs. The tribunal dismissed this claim in an as-yet unpublished procedural order, finding that Murphy did not present a specific claim in this respect during the proceedings. In a short paragraph in its recent final award, the tribunal refused to reconsider its partial award and the subsequent procedural order.  Finally, the tribunal in the partial award had used Murphy Ecuador’s cash flows between 2009 and 2012 (the latter date marking the end of the participation contract in a but-for scenario) to arrive at its fair market value in 2009. In the claimant’s view, this analysis should be amended to take into account the new contractual framework negotiated with Repsol Ecuador when it bought Murphy’s stake, and which extended the participation contract to 2018. The claimants contended that this sum was factored into the sale price, but not into the fair market value found by the tribunal, resulting in lower compensation for Murphy.  The respondent countered that such an adjustment was not included in the directions set out by the tribunal in the partial award. In any case, Ecuador added, this newly proposed calculation was at odds with the claimant’s previous position and lacked economic justification.  Ultimately, the tribunal accepted Ecuador’s first counterargument, stressing that the partial award left undecided only one sort of adjustment to the fair market value of Murphy’s investment, i.e., the adjustment accounting for the claimant’s ongoing obligation under a 50% – as opposed to a 99% – windfall levy. Any other and additional adjustment would be “inconsistent with – and amount to a reconsideration of – the Partial Final Award”.  The tribunal’s refusal to reconsider its previous findings should be read in the context of tribunals often debating whether they even have such power (see, e.g., here ). In the present case, the tribunal did not particularly discuss this legal point, and seemed to proceed on the assumption that reconsideration requests were off-limits. By contrast, another award involving Ecuador recently elaborated on – and accepted, within certain limits – its power to reconsider previous findings, but rejected the state’s request on the merits (see our analysis here ).