Focus on the “last clean date” before first breach found proper   As we reported here , the tribunal had averaged the results of two valuation methods (a stock-market method, and a market-multiples method) in arriving at the investment’s value at the time of the expropriation. Venezuela argued that both methods were flawed.  With respect to the stock-market method, the state denounced the tribunal’s decision to consider a “last clean date” (i.e., the last date before Venezuela’s first wrongful actions) in its damages analysis. The tribunal’s reasoning was that Venezuela had committed wrongful actions prior to the expropriation date, and the investment value at the time of the expropriation should reflect the impact of these wrongful acts. A comparison with how other mining companies’ shares fared from that “last clean date” to the expropriation date allowed the tribunal to assess Crystallex’s value “but for” Venezuela’s wrongful actions.  Yet, since the “last clean date” was not the date of the expropriation, Venezuela argued that the tribunal acted in excess of its powers. Venezuela’s argument was twofold: there were no such “wrongful acts” preceding the expropriation; and the BIT prohibited such a valuation method.  The district court refused to follow the state’s first argument, noting that it amounted to an unpermitted review of the merits: the question of the existence of wrongful acts prior to the expropriation had been decided by the arbitrators, who identified breaches of the Fair and Equitable Treatment standard in Venezuela’s conduct.  The district court also upheld the tribunal’s finding that it was not restricted by the BIT’s expropriation clause, which provided for compensation of the investment’s value “immediately before the expropriation or at the time the proposed expropriation became public knowledge”. The tribunal reasoned – and the district court accepted – that Venezuela breached other protections under the treaty as well, so that the tribunal was warranted to adapt the damages analysis to ensure full-reparation under international law.  Venezuela’s opposition to the tribunal’s use of a market-multiple method (on the ground that the tribunal relied on projections it elsewhere rejected) was no more successful. The district court was satisfied that any alleged error by the tribunal here, even if serious, would not suffice to set aside the award.