ANALYSIS: unpacking the recent annulment decision in SAUR v. Argentina    As we reported recently , an ad-hoc committee at the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) has dismissed the application by the Argentine Republic to annul a 2014 award in favor of French investor SAUR International S.A.  Below, we delve deeper into the reasons that led the ad-hoc committee to reject Argentina’s bid in its entirety.  Following SAUR’s claims that Argentina had failed to respect a 2007 settlement agreement between Argentina and OSM, in which SAUR held an indirect, minority stake, an ICSID tribunal composed of Christian Tomuschat, Bernard Hanotiau and Juan Fernández-Armesto, ruled in 2012 that Argentina was liable under the France-Argentina bilateral investment treaty (see our coverage here ), before awarding the investor more than $40 million in a final award in 2014 (analyzed in more depth here ).  The award was challenged by Argentina under article 52 of the ICSID Convention, before an ad-hoc committee composed of Arbitrator 
   ,* current ICJ vice-president Arbitrator 
   , and Álvaro Castellanos – but to no avail. In a decision dated December 19, 2016, and available for download in French ( here ) and in Spanish ( here ), the committee rejected Argentina’s bid to annul the award.  Throughout its argument, detailed below, Argentina raised three of the five grounds for annulment available under the ICSID Convention,** arguing that in various parts of its decisions the tribunal breached fundamental rules of procedure, manifestly exceeded its powers, and/or failed to state the reasons for its conclusions – notably in contradicting itself at multiple times. (Strictly speaking, only a final award is subject to annulment under Article 52 of the ICSID Convention, however the committee’s decision also analyzes preliminary rulings in the case, including a decision on jurisdiction and a decision on liability.)  The law firm Shearman and Sterling represented SAUR, while Argentina was represented by its in-house legal team.  This is the second success for SAUR before an ad-hoc committee this year, after a first committee refused in February to annul another, unrelated award in its favor, in a case where it was involved along with EDF International and León Participaciones Argentinas S.A. (see our analysis of this decision here ). Earlier this month, Argentina also indicated that it has been successful in another arbitration involving a terminated water concession ( see here ).