Narrow jurisdictional clause already interpreted in earlier disputes involving Chinese treaties   Yemen’s next objection, arguably the most important in these proceedings, was based on the BIT’s investor-state dispute settlement clause. Article 10 is an unusually narrow such clause, of the type found in many of the PRC’s (and some other former communist states’) investment treaties, and which limits the jurisdiction of investment tribunals to disputes “relating to the amount of compensation for expropriation.”  This would be only the latest case where arbitrators needed to judge whether such a clause limited their jurisdiction to a mere quantitative exercise – assessing the amount of compensation in case of an otherwise-established expropriation – or allowed them to go further and to judge the prerequisite question as to whether an expropriation has, in fact, occurred.  Readers may recall, in particular, the saga surrounding the award in Sanum v Laos, where a similarly-worded clause in the China-Laos BIT was deemed sufficient to ground the tribunal’s jurisdiction to decide whether an expropriation had occurred . But, subsequently, in set-aside proceedings, the pivotal clause was construed “narrowly” by the Singapore High Court , before being read more broadly by the Singapore Court of Appeal .  The Sanum saga played out against the backdrop of developments in an earlier case, Tza Yap Shum v Peru under the China-Peru BIT. In that case – which we described, back in 2009 , as “an obscure arbitration with broad implications,” a tribunal had interpreted  a similar clause “broadly,” to the effect that it afforded jurisdiction over the question whether an expropriation took place, and not solely over the compensation’s quantum . The tribunal’s interpretation in that case would later survive annulment proceedings.  In Yemen’s view, however, the Tza Yap Shum award had been “wrongly decided and should not be followed.” Yemen favoured the “narrow” interpretation, under which ICSID jurisdiction would be open only to claimants unsatisfied by the compensation offered to them by the respondent state. On this view, findings as to the existence of an expropriation (whether there has been a taking, whether it has been discriminatory, etc.) would exceed the tribunal’s limited mandate. This interpretation also meant that such a jurisdictional clause covered only “lawful” expropriations and not “unlawful” ones.