NAFTA is not an insurance policy against bad business judgments   On the merits, the tribunal stressed the effects of a recent Mexican financial crisis as a background to the dispute. The tribunal then swiftly dismissed the FET allegations against Banobras and the Mexican state of Guerrero to focus on the conduct of Acapulco.  The tribunal acknowledged the city’s failures to comply with the contractual framework. But it also noted that they were not solely to blame for Acaverde’s woes, as its business plan was deficient from the start.  Besides, Acapulco’s actions could be “explained, albeit not excused” by its dire financial situation. On the whole, although defective in contractual terms, this conduct did not amount to a breach of the standard of treatment – especially since the investor had judicial remedies available.  The investor had tried these remedies, albeit without success in its claims. The tribunal saw no denial of justice in these circumstances. Indeed, Acaverde’s arbitration against the City was discontinued on Acaverde’s own motion, and the (allegedly wrongful) conduct of the proceedings could not be attributed to Mexico, absent evidence of collusion with the arbitral institution.  Similarly, the tribunal stressed that it was not “not a further court of appeal […] in respect of the decisions of the federal courts of NAFTA parties”. The treatment by Mexican courts of Acaverde’s claims suffered from no obvious defects. Acapulco’s conduct in these proceedings were not a denial of justice either, for it “is not unusual for litigants to be difficult and obstructive”.  The investor also complained of the city’s alleged wrongful termination of the concession, and the city’s attempt to collect a performance bond, however the tribunal rejected these claims: the former as not reaching the threshold of a treaty claim, the latter as having caused no loss to the claimant since it was unsuccessful. Lastly, while the tribunal accepted that a “deliberate conspiracy” to frustrate the investor’s protections under the treaty could be a breach, the investor failed to demonstrate the existence of such conspiracy.